Apple reportedly in talks with
a long-time rival to team up
on new AI offerings.
That's as Apple
also works to fend off a new
charge under the
European Union's Digital Markets Act.
Julia Borsten joins us with more in
today's tech check. Hi Julia. Hi Tyler.
Well as Apple pursues its new AI
strategy of partnerships, it's
in talks with Meta about potentially
integrating Meta's Lama AI
models into Apple Intelligence.
This according to a
Wall Street Journal report.
Now this would be a notable
pivot from a
contentious relationship with
Metta as the two companies
clashed over privacy
and ad targeting and it comes
after Apple partnered with
OpenAI to bring its
chat GPT to phones.
The company also said they'd
include Google's Gemini and
Apple is also reportedly in
talks with Anthropic and Perplexity.
Now while
no money would change hands
for these deals, Apple would serve as a
gatekeeper and would take a
cut of subscription revenue
from premium
services that AI companies
could sell, just like Apple
takes a cut of App Store revenue.
Now, speaking of Apple's App
Store, regulators are now
charging Apple with failing to comply
with its Digital Markets Act,
which focuses on large
platforms that are gatekeepers.
The EU's case, which is the
EU's first enforcement of the
DMA, accuses Apple of not allowing
developers to steer consumers
to cheaper alternatives outside
of the App Store.
And, unlike past regulatory
threats, which did not pose
much financial risk, the EU could
fine Apple as much as 10
percent of its worldwide revenue.
This strict regulatory
oversight in Europe is
impacting Apple's strategy.
Just last week, Apple said it
would not roll out new
generative AI features in
the region because of
regulatory concerns.
Kelly?
Julia, we appreciate it.
Thank you, Julia Borson.